.TH JOIN 3 "25 April 1991"
.SH NAME
im_lrjoin, im_tbjoin \- join two images into one
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <vips/vips.h>

int im_lrjoin( IMAGE *im1, IMAGE *im2, IMAGE *imout )

int im_tbjoin( IMAGE *im1, IMAGE *im2, IMAGE *imout )
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions join two image left-right or top-bottom.  Both input images
should have the same no of bands and the same BandFmt.  Output has the same no
of bands and BandFmt as input.  Only the history of the first image is kept by
the output image.

im_lrjoin() joins two images held by image descriptors im1 and im2 and writes
the resultant byte image on the image descriptor imout.  The number of the
extracted channels are identical for all images.  The Xsize of imout is the
sum of the Xsizes of im1 and im2; the Ysize of imout is the min of the Ysizes
of im1 and im2.  When joining im1 is on the left side of imout and im2 is on
the right side of imout.

im_tbjoin() joins two images held by image descriptors im1 and im2 and writes
the resultant byte image on the image descriptor imout.  The number of the
extracted channels are identical for all images.  The Xsize of imout is the
min of the Xsizes of im1 and im2; the Ysize of imout is the sum of the Ysizes
of im1 and im2.  When joining im1 is on the top side of imout and im2 is on
the bottom side of imout.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns 0 on success and -1 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
im_extract(3), im_lrmerge(3), im_insert(3)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
K. Martinez, N. Dessipris,
.SH AUTHOR
K. Martinez and N. Dessipris \- 25/04/1991
