.TH COOC 1 "27 Jan 1992"
.SH NAME
cooc, cooc_features \- calculate the co-occurrence matrix and features on it
.SH SYNOPSIS
cooc image matrix xpos ypos xsize ysize dx dy flag

.br
.B cooc_features matrix
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cooc
creates a 256 by 256 one channel co-occurrence matrix of the box
determined by the parameters (xp, yp; xs, ys) within
the image file.  The matrix
is written onto the Vasari image file matrix.  The displacement
vector is determined by (dx, dy).  The user must ensure that there
is enough border pixels around the box within im dictated by the displacement
vector (dx,dy) or else the program fails.
All entries of the co-occurrence matrix are double normalised to the number
of pairs involved.  This function is a direct implementation of the paper:
Haralick R. M., Shanmugan K. and Dinstein I., 'Textural features for
image classification', IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics,
Vol. SMC-3, No 6, Nov. 1973, pp 610-621.

If flag sym is 1, the created co-occurrence matrix is symmetric that is
dispacement vectors (dx, dy), (-dx, -dy) create exactly the same matrix.
If sym is 0, the created co-occurrence matrix is not symmetric that is
dispacement vectors (dx, dy), (-dx, -dy) create different matrices.

Input image should be one band unsigned char image.

.B cooc_features
calculates and prints at the standard error output features
of the cooccurrence matrix matrix.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
im_glds_matrix(3X), im_cooc_asm(3X), im_cooc_contrast(3X),
im_cooc_correlation(3X), im_cooc_entropy(3X)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
N. Dessipris
.SH AUTHOR
N. Dessipris \- 27/2/1992
