.TH VIPS 1 "30 June 1993"
.SH NAME
vips \- run vips operations from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vips [options] [command] [command-options] [command-args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vips(1)
is the VIPS universal main program. You can use it to run any VIPS operation
from the command line, to query the VIPS class hierarchy, and to
maintain parts of the VIPS library.

To run a VIPS operation, the first argument should be the name of the
operation
and following arguments should be the operation arguments. For example:

  $ vips invert lena.v lena2.v

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -l BASE-NAME, --list=BASE-NAME       
List operations below BASE-NAME. This prints a one-line summary of every
operation in vips below the class BASE-NAME, where BASE-NAME may be a full
vips class name, or a nickname. 

If BASE-NAME is not supplied, this will list all classes below VipsOperation.

.TP
.B -p PLUGIN, --plugin=PLUGIN       
Load PLUGIN. Note that plugins in $VIPSHOME/lib/vips-plugins-MAJOR.MINOR are 
loaded automatically.

.TP
.B -v, --version
Show VIPS version.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B operation-name operation-arguments
Execute a named operation, for example add. 

.SH EXAMPLES

Run a vips8 operation. Operation options must follow the operation name.

  $ vips insert lena.v lena2.v out.v 0 0 --background "128 0 0"

Get a "usage" message for an operation.

  $ vips insert 
  insert image @sub into @main at @x, @y
  usage:
     insert main sub out x y
  where:
     main         - Main input image, input VipsImage
     sub          - Sub-image to insert into main image, input VipsImage
     out          - Output image, output VipsImage
     x            - Left edge of sub in main, input gint
			  default: 0
			  min: -100000000, max: 100000000
     y            - Top edge of sub in main, input gint
			  default: 0
			  min: -100000000, max: 100000000
  optional arguments:
     expand       - Expand output to hold all of both inputs, input gboolean
			  default: false
     background   - Colour for new pixels, input VipsArrayDouble
  operation flags: sequential 

List all draw operations.

  $ vips -l draw
    VipsDraw (draw), draw operations
      VipsDrawink (drawink), draw with ink operations
        VipsDrawRect (draw_rect), paint a rectangle on an image
        VipsDrawMask (draw_mask), draw a mask on an image
        VipsDrawLine (draw_line), draw a line on an image
        VipsDrawCircle (draw_circle), draw a circle on an image
        VipsDrawFlood (draw_flood), flood-fill an area
      VipsDrawImage (draw_image), paint an image into another image
      VipsDrawSmudge (draw_smudge), blur a rectangle on an image

.SH RETURN VALUE
returns 0 on success and non-zero on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
vipsheader(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
The National Gallery and Birkbeck College, 1989-1996.
